docs/README.md, before:



# Service Example

A reference app implementing a VTEX IO service with HTTP route handlers.

We use [**KoaJS**](https://koajs.com/) as the web framework, so you might want to get into that

We also use the [**node-vtex-api**](https://github.com/vtex/node-vtex-api), a VTEX set of utilities for Node services. You can import this package using NPM from `@vtex/api` (already imported on this project)

- Start from `node/index.ts` and follow the comments and imports :)

## Recipes

### Defining routes on _service.json_ 
```json
{
  "memory": 256,
  "ttl": 10,
  "timeout": 2,
  "minReplicas": 2,
  "maxReplicas": 4,
  "routes": {
    "status": {
      "path": "/_v/status/:code",
      "public": true
    }
  }
}
```

The `service.json` file that sits on the root of the `node` folder holds informations about this service, like the maximum timeout and number of replicas, what might be discontinued on the future, but also **sets its routes**. 

Koa uses the [path-to-regexp](https://github.com/pillarjs/path-to-regexp) format for defining routes and, as seen on the example, we use the `:code` notation for declaring a **route param** named code, in this case. A HTTP request for `https://{{workspace}}--{{account}}.myvtex.com/_v/status/500` will match the route we've defined. 

For cach _key_ on the `routes` object, there should be a **corresponding entry** on the exported Service object on `node/index.ts`, this will hook your code to a specific route.

### Access Control
You can also provide a `public` option for each route. If `true`, that resource will be reachable for everyone on the internet. If `false`, VTEX credentials will be requested as well.

Another way of controlling access to specific routes is using **ReBACs (Resource-based access)**, that supports more robust configuration. You can read more [on this document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZxNHMFIXfXz3BgTN9xyrHL3V5dYz14wivYgQjRBZ6J8/edit#heading=h.z7pad3qd2qw7) (VTEX only).

#### Query String
For `?accepting=query-string`, you **don't need to declare anything**, as any query provided to the URL will already be available for you to use on the code as `ctx.query`, already parsed as an object, or `ctx.queryString`, taken directly from the URL as a string.

#### HTTP methods
When you define a route on the `service.json`, your NodeJS handler for that route will be triggered  **on every HTTP method** (GET, POST, PUT...), so, if you need to handle them separately you need to implement the "sub-router". Since you can **define an array of handlers** to each route, a simple pattern to accomplish this is, like, `status: [validate, statusGet, statusPost]`, where a function that only deals with GET request should just call `next()`.

### Throwing errors

When building a HTTP service, we should follow HTTP rules regarding data types, cache, authorization, and status code. Our example app sets a `ctx.status` value that will be used as a HTTP status code return value, but often we also want to give proper information about errors as well.

The **node-vtex-api** already exports a handful of **custom error classes** that can be used for that purpose, like the `NotFoundError`. You just need to throw them inside one of the the route handlers that the appropriate response will be sent to the server.

```typescript
import { UserInputError } from '@vtex/api'

export async function validate(ctx: Context, next: () => Promise<any>) {
  const { code } = ctx.vtex.params
  if (isNaN(code) || code < 100 || code > 600) {
    throw new UserInputError('Code must be a number between 100 and 600')
  }
...
```

You can check all the available errors [here](https://github.com/vtex/node-vtex-api/tree/fd6139349de4e68825b1074f1959dd8d0c8f4d5b/src/errors), but some are not useful for just-HTTP services. Check the most useful ones:

|Error Class | HTTP Code |
|--|:--:|
| `UserInputError` | 400 |
| `AuthenticationError` | 401 |
| `ForbiddenError` | 403 |
| `NotFoundError` | 404 |

You can also **create your custom error**, just see how it's done above ;)

### Reading a JSON body

When writing POST or PUT handlers, for example, often you need to have access to the **request body** that comes as a JSON format, which is not provided directly by the handler function.

For this, you have to use the [co-body](https://www.npmjs.com/package/co-body) package that will parse the request into a readable JSON object, used as below: 
```typescript
import { json } from 'co-body'
export async function method(ctx: Context, next: () => Promise<any>) {
    const body = await json(ctx.req)
```

### Other example apps

We use Node services across all VTEX, and there are a lot inspiring examples. If you want to dive deeper on learning about this subject, don't miss those internal apps: [builder-hub](https://github.com/vtex/builder-hub) or [store-sitemap](https://github.com/vtex-apps/store-sitemap)


## Testing

`@vtex/test-tools` and `@types/jest` should be installed on `./node` package as `devDependencies`.

Run `vtex test` and [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) will do its thing.

Check the `node/__tests__/simple.test.ts` test case and also [Jest's Documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/getting-started).

## Splunk Dashboard

We have an (for now, VTEX-only, internal) Splunk dashboard to show all metrics related to your app. You can find it [here](https://splunk7.vtex.com/en-US/app/vtex_colossus/node_app_metrics).

After linking this app and making some requests, you can select `vtex.service-example` and see the metrics for your app. **Don't forget to check the box Development, as you are linking your app in a development workspace**.

For convenience, the link for the current version: https://splunk7.vtex.com/en-US/app/vtex_colossus/node_app_metrics?form.time.earliest=-30m%40m&form.time.latest=%40m&form.picked_context=false&form.picked_region=aws-us-east-*&form.picked_service=vtex.service-example

Commit message:

Adding a section about the method function as an alternative to defining different handlers for HTTP methods

docs/README.md, after:



# Service Example

A reference app implementing a VTEX IO service with HTTP route handlers.

We use [**KoaJS**](https://koajs.com/) as the web framework, so you might want to get into that

We also use the [**node-vtex-api**](https://github.com/vtex/node-vtex-api), a VTEX set of utilities for Node services. You can import this package using NPM from `@vtex/api` (already imported on this project)

- Start from `node/index.ts` and follow the comments and imports :)

## Recipes

### Defining routes on _service.json_ 
```json
{
  "memory": 256,
  "ttl": 10,
  "timeout": 2,
  "minReplicas": 2,
  "maxReplicas": 4,
  "routes": {
    "status": {
      "path": "/_v/status/:code",
      "public": true
    }
  }
}
```

The `service.json` file that sits on the root of the `node` folder holds informations about this service, like the maximum timeout and number of replicas, what might be discontinued on the future, but also **sets its routes**. 

Koa uses the [path-to-regexp](https://github.com/pillarjs/path-to-regexp) format for defining routes and, as seen on the example, we use the `:code` notation for declaring a **route param** named code, in this case. A HTTP request for `https://{{workspace}}--{{account}}.myvtex.com/_v/status/500` will match the route we've defined. 

For cach _key_ on the `routes` object, there should be a **corresponding entry** on the exported Service object on `node/index.ts`, this will hook your code to a specific route.

### Access Control
You can also provide a `public` option for each route. If `true`, that resource will be reachable for everyone on the internet. If `false`, VTEX credentials will be requested as well.

Another way of controlling access to specific routes is using **ReBACs (Resource-based access)**, that supports more robust configuration. You can read more [on this document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZxNHMFIXfXz3BgTN9xyrHL3V5dYz14wivYgQjRBZ6J8/edit#heading=h.z7pad3qd2qw7) (VTEX only).

#### Query String
For `?accepting=query-string`, you **don't need to declare anything**, as any query provided to the URL will already be available for you to use on the code as `ctx.query`, already parsed as an object, or `ctx.queryString`, taken directly from the URL as a string.

#### HTTP methods
When you define a route on the `service.json`, your NodeJS handler for that route will be triggered  **on every HTTP method** (GET, POST, PUT...), so, if you need to handle them separately you need to implement the "sub-router". Since you can **define an array of handlers** to each route, a simple pattern to accomplish this is, like, `status: [validate, statusGet, statusPost]`, where a function that only deals with GET request should just call `next()`.

Another way of routing to different HTTP methods is using the helper function `method` exported from `@vtex/api`. Instead of passing your handlers directly to the corresponding route on `index.ts`, you pass a `method` call passing **an object with the desired method as key and one handler as its corresponding value**. Check this example:
```typescript
import { method } from '@vtex/api'
...

export default new Service<Clients, State>({
  clients,
  routes: {
    status: method({
      GET: statusGetHandler,
      POST: statusPostHandler,
    }),
  },
})
```

### Throwing errors

When building a HTTP service, we should follow HTTP rules regarding data types, cache, authorization, and status code. Our example app sets a `ctx.status` value that will be used as a HTTP status code return value, but often we also want to give proper information about errors as well.

The **node-vtex-api** already exports a handful of **custom error classes** that can be used for that purpose, like the `NotFoundError`. You just need to throw them inside one of the the route handlers that the appropriate response will be sent to the server.

```typescript
import { UserInputError } from '@vtex/api'

export async function validate(ctx: Context, next: () => Promise<any>) {
  const { code } = ctx.vtex.params
  if (isNaN(code) || code < 100 || code > 600) {
    throw new UserInputError('Code must be a number between 100 and 600')
  }
...
```

You can check all the available errors [here](https://github.com/vtex/node-vtex-api/tree/fd6139349de4e68825b1074f1959dd8d0c8f4d5b/src/errors), but some are not useful for just-HTTP services. Check the most useful ones:

|Error Class | HTTP Code |
|--|:--:|
| `UserInputError` | 400 |
| `AuthenticationError` | 401 |
| `ForbiddenError` | 403 |
| `NotFoundError` | 404 |

You can also **create your custom error**, just see how it's done above ;)

### Reading a JSON body

When writing POST or PUT handlers, for example, often you need to have access to the **request body** that comes as a JSON format, which is not provided directly by the handler function.

For this, you have to use the [co-body](https://www.npmjs.com/package/co-body) package that will parse the request into a readable JSON object, used as below: 
```typescript
import { json } from 'co-body'
export async function method(ctx: Context, next: () => Promise<any>) {
    const body = await json(ctx.req)
```

### Other example apps

We use Node services across all VTEX, and there are a lot inspiring examples. If you want to dive deeper on learning about this subject, don't miss those internal apps: [builder-hub](https://github.com/vtex/builder-hub) or [store-sitemap](https://github.com/vtex-apps/store-sitemap)


## Testing

`@vtex/test-tools` and `@types/jest` should be installed on `./node` package as `devDependencies`.

Run `vtex test` and [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) will do its thing.

Check the `node/__tests__/simple.test.ts` test case and also [Jest's Documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/getting-started).

## Splunk Dashboard

We have an (for now, VTEX-only, internal) Splunk dashboard to show all metrics related to your app. You can find it [here](https://splunk7.vtex.com/en-US/app/vtex_colossus/node_app_metrics).

After linking this app and making some requests, you can select `vtex.service-example` and see the metrics for your app. **Don't forget to check the box Development, as you are linking your app in a development workspace**.

For convenience, the link for the current version: https://splunk7.vtex.com/en-US/app/vtex_colossus/node_app_metrics?form.time.earliest=-30m%40m&form.time.latest=%40m&form.picked_context=false&form.picked_region=aws-us-east-*&form.picked_service=vtex.service-example
